- [Instructor] API clients hunger
for well-described interfaces to avoid runtime errors.
As a back end developer
I know the irritation of being blamed for a broken service,
only to learn that the service was not properly invoked.
API documentation should relieve this pain,
but keeping it in sync with the code is an annoyance.
And that's why it's a best practice
to keep documentation with the code.
The Open API Specification is a standard for documenting,
consuming, and visually interfacing with machines.
Swagger is a tool that implements
the Open API Specification.
Springdoc-openapi is a library that includes Swagger
to dynamically generate Spring Boot API documentation.
Let's add the springdoc dependency to our application
and see what happens.
And the version that this recording
will be using is 1.4.5.
So this is the base Open API, that's UI specification.
Since we are using REST repositories,
there's actually a separate library
for documenting Spring Data Rest repositories.
So let's import those changes into our project.
And rebuild it and run it.
Now let's go to a web page
from our local host 8080
swagger-ui.html.
And voila.
Our Spring Boot application
now has an interactive Swagger webpage.
And we can scroll down here and we see all of our APIs
that are public.
The /ratings.
The tour ratings,
which is through the /tours/tourUI/ratings.
/packages and /tours,
which are from our REST repositories.
And you can actually interact with this webpage to
consume the API.
So let's try getting all of our ratings.
Open that and click try it out.
And execute the GET on that.
And there's the results
of getting our ratings.
And we can actually create a rating.
And it's going to prompt us for the parameters on that.
So we'll try this API out.
Tour rating ID one.
We'll give it a score of three,
say that it was good.
And that the customerId was one.
And execute that API.
And it created it.
I like it.
But at this stage right now, it's kind of generic.
So this just shows what you can get out of the box,
but I'm going to go and uncomment
some Swagger annotations that are in the code
and that's going to show some embellishment
and more detail in this page
that will be personalized for our application.
So first we'll go to our ExploreCaliApplication.
And I'm going to uncomment
this OpenAPIDefinition
annotation.
And this will give an overall like title, description,
and version of the API at the top of the webpage.
In our writing controller,
there's this tag annotation.
Which gives an overall description and name
for the /ratings.
And then for each of the operations that we have here,
we declare an operation with @Operation.
And then @ApiResponses.
And API response gives more detail
about what's going to actually be returned.
Import those definitions.
And I'll show you what's happening here.
These annotations actually come from io.swagger.
Those are swagger annotations.
We'll do the same thing in our tour rating controller.
And finally our delete mapping.
And finally,
on our REST repositories,
we can actually give a name to the overall repository
using the tag.
All right.
So let's stop this.
Rebuild it and rerun it.
Okay, it started.
Let's reload our Swagger page.
And awesome we have the Explore Cali API description
at the top.
And now we have our controller APIs group.
So we have our ratings grouped with the description
and then each of the operations
or end points having a description.
And this was our tour package repository.
And our tour repository REST APIs.
All nice on one page.
Springdocs is just one library
to document your APIs in code.
There are other libraries such as SpringFox,
and even alternatives to Swagger.
Documenting APIs programmatically is optional,
and it's only included in this part of the course.
Perhaps external documentation,
which is difficult to keep current,
better suits your needs.
Either way,
it's good to know there are options.